I know we all love to make estimates, uh not.
When I ask for an estimate the response I get is like a deer in the headlights.
Well making an estimate is tough and what I think
makes it so tough is that the person, manager,
executive or customer that is asking you for the estimate expects perfection.
But wait a minute, it is just an estimate, so what is an estimate?
Let's see.
Estimation,
it's the process of predicting the most realistic amount
of effort expressed in terms of hours,
money or some unit required to develop or maintain software
based on incomplete or uncertain input.
Aren't we all a little nervous when our manager or customer says something like,
hey, can you give me an estimate for this?
But don't worry, I will not hold you to it.
Yes, they seem to never forget that first estimate.
Even though making estimates are hard,
I still truly believe that estimation is a very important
activity and a key activity for you and your team.
Okay, go/no go decision.
So making a good estimate will give you the information you need,
for example should we even be doing this activity or project,
or is there a return on investment?
Next, it enhances the setting and managing of customer expectations.
Quality estimates enable you to better manage your customer's
expectations so the customer knows what the costs are to expect.
Provides a foundation for accurate project costs,
so a solid process for creating quality estimates provides the core
foundations for more accurate project costs in the future.
So as you proceed you can better compare actuals versus estimates.
So if you keep the analysis and your model for making an estimate,
you can reuse those,
as well as if you track your time when you actually build the software,
you can then later compare your actual costs to time
or hours against your estimates, look at the delta and make improvements.
Okay next, drives high level project scoping.
So for an initial project, somewhat large,
you need to be able to have a basis for guiding the
prioritization of features to implement,
which are not detailed,
but are high level features with early estimates to help you
prioritize what features to implement first.
Next, let's see what you need for making a reasonable estimate.
Here are some things I think you need to make a reasonable estimate.
The definition of work, your requirements or project definition.
Remember the last section we talked about making good requirements,
without good requirements it makes it pretty tough
to make a really good estimate.
Next, management support.
Is your management supportive of you to take time to follow
your process to make a good estimate?
So you may need to educate your management on the return investment for
spending adequate time developing quality estimates.
So don't be shy.
Next, knowledge of available resources for the project.
In other words, what resources may be at your disposal?
Developers, consultants, subject matter experts,
for example, that will help you build your estimate.
It's one thing to make an estimate of an area you know about,
but for other areas of technology or business process,
you're going to need to bring in subject matter experts
to help you make a better estimate.
Next you're going to need some time to make that estimate.
So be sure you allocate enough time proportional to the size of effort,
based on the size of effort or the size of the project,
you might need a little more time.
In order to build that accurate estimate,
again, we're going to need management support so you can go do that.
And then, of course, you're going to need an estimating process,
in fact, your process for making estimates.
So with a solid process of your own, you will succeed,
and your team, at creating and improving your estimation skills.
Now this does take time,
and that's just what we'll be doing in the next modules as well.
Alright, so if I have piqued your interest in the estimation practices,
let's see where you can learn more about estimation.
As I mentioned, each section in this module could in fact be a complete course,
Well I would like to recommend to you another one of my Pluralsight
courses titled Best Practices for Project Estimation,
which will be a nice adjunct or companion course for this course. Now let's do some design and architecture work in the next section.